---
layout: post
category : drush
tags : [drupal, drush]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

### Core drush commands

- [``archive-dump``](#archive-dump)             Backup your code, files, and database into a single file.
- [``archive-restore``](#archive-restore)       Expand a site archive into a Drupal web site.
- [``cache-clear``](#cache-clear)               Clear a specific cache, or all drupal caches.
- [``cache-get``](#cache-get)                   Fetch a cached object and display it.
- [``cache-set``](#cache-set)                   Cache an object expressed in JSON or var\_export() format.
- [``core-config``](#core-config)               Edit drushrc, site alias, and Drupal settings.php files.
- [``core-cron``](#core-cron)                   Run all cron hooks in all active modules for specified site.
- [``core-execute``](#core-execute)             Execute a shell command. Usually used with a site alias.
- [``core-quick-drupal``](#core-quick-drupal)   Download, install, serve and login to Drupal with minimal configuration and dependencies.
- [``core-requirements``](#core-requirements)   Provides information about things that may be wrong in your Drupal installation, if any.
- [``core-rsync``](#core-rsync)                 Rsync the Drupal tree to/from another server using ssh.
- [``core-status``](#core-status)               Provides a birds-eye view of the current Drupal installation, if any.
- [``core-topic``](#core-topic)                 Read detailed documentation on a given topic.
- [``drupal-directory``](#drupal-directory)     Return path to a given module/theme directory.
- [``help``](#help)                             Print this help message. See \`drush help help\` for more options.
- [``image-flush``](#image-flush)               Flush all derived images for a given style.
- [``php-eval``](#php-eval)                     Evaluate arbitrary php code after bootstrapping Drupal (if available).
- [``php-script``](#php-script)                 Run php script(s).
- [``queue-list``](#queue-list)                 Returns a list of all defined queues
- [``queue-run``](#queue-run)                   Run a specific queue by name
- [``search-index``](#search-index)             Index the remaining search items without wiping the index.
- [``search-reindex``](#search-reindex)         Force the search index to be rebuilt.
- [``search-status``](#search-status)           Show how many items remain to be indexed out of the total.
- [``self-update``](#self-update)               Check to see if there is a newer Drush release available.
- [``shell-alias``](#shell-alias)               Print all known shell alias records.
- [``site-alias``](#site-alias)                 Print site alias records for all known site aliases and local sites.
- [``site-install``](#site-install)             Install Drupal along with modules/themes/configuration using the specified install profile.
- [``site-reset``](#site-reset)                 Reset a persistently set site.
- [``site-set``](#site-set)                     Set a site alias to work on that will persist for the current session.
- [``site-ssh``](#site-ssh)                     Connect to a Drupal site's server via SSH for an interactive session or to run a shell command
- [``test-clean``](#test-clean)                 Clean temporary tables and files.
- [``test-run``](#test-run)                     Run tests. Note that you must use the --uri option.
- [``updatedb``](#updatedb)                     Apply any database updates required (as with running update.php).
- [``usage-send``](#usage-send)                 Send anonymous Drush usage information to statistics logging site. Usage statistics contain the Drush command name and the Drush option names, but no arguments or option values.
- [``usage-show``](#usage-show)                 Show Drush usage information that has been logged but not sent. Usage statistics contain the Drush command name and the Drush option names, but no arguments or option values.
- [``variable-delete``](#variable-delete)       Delete a variable.
- [``variable-get``](#variable-get)             Get a list of some or all site variables and values.
- [``variable-set``](#variable-set)             Set a variable.
- [``version``](#version)                       Show drush version.
- [``watchdog-delete``](#watchdog-delete)       Delete watchdog messages.
- [``watchdog-list``](#watchdog-list)           Show available message types and severity levels. A prompt will ask for a choice to show watchdog messages.
- [``watchdog-show``](#watchdog-show)           Show watchdog messages.

### Runserver commands
- [``runserver``](#runserver)     Runs a lightweight built in http server for development.

### Field commands
- [``field-clone``](#field-clone)       Clone a field and all its instances.
- [``field-create``](#field-create)     Create fields and instances. Returns urls for field editing.
- [``field-delete``](#field-delete)     Delete a field and its instances.
- [``field-info``](#field-info)         View information about fields, field\_types, and widgets.
- [``field-update``](#field-update)     Return URL for field editing web page.

### Project manager commands
- [``pm-disable``](#pm-disable)               Disable one or more extensions (modules or themes).
- [``pm-download``](#pm-download)             Download projects from drupal.org or other sources.
- [``pm-enable``](#pm-enable)                 Enable one or more extensions (modules or themes).
- [``pm-info``](#pm-info)                     Show detailed info for one or more extensions (modules or themes).
- [``pm-list``](#pm-list)                     Show a list of available extensions (modules and themes).
- [``pm-refresh``](#pm-refresh)               Refresh update status information.
- [``pm-releasenotes``](#pm-releasenotes)     Print release notes for given projects.
- [``pm-releases``](#pm-releases)             Print release information for given projects.
- [``pm-uninstall``](#pm-uninstall)           Uninstall one or more modules.
- [``pm-update``](#pm-update)                 Update Drupal core and contrib projects and apply any pending database updates (Same as pm-updatecode + updatedb).
- [``pm-updatecode``](#pm-updatecode)         Update Drupal core and contrib projects to latest recommended releases.

### SQL commands
- [``sql-cli``](#sql-cli)             Open a SQL command-line interface using Drupal's credentials.
- [``sql-connect``](#sql-connect)     A string for connecting to the DB.
- [``sql-create``](#sql-create)       Create a database.
- [``sql-drop``](#sql-drop)           Drop all tables in a given database.
- [``sql-dump``](#sql-dump)           Exports the Drupal DB as SQL using mysqldump or equivalent.
- [``sql-query``](#sql-query)         Execute a query against the site database.
- [``sql-sync``](#sql-sync)           Copy and import source database to target database. Transfers via rsync.


### User commands
- [``user-add-role``](#user-add-role)           Add a role to the specified user accounts.
- [``user-block``](#user-block)                 Block the specified user(s).
- [``user-cancel``](#user-cancel)               Cancel a user account with the specified name.
- [``user-create``](#user-create)               Create a user account with the specified name.
- [``user-information``](#user-information)     Print information about the specified user(s).
- [``user-login``](#user-login)                 Display a one time login link for the given user account (defaults to uid 1).
- [``user-password``](#user-password)           (Re)Set the password for the user account with the specified name.
- [``user-remove-role``](#user-remove-role)     Remove a role from the specified user accounts.
- [``user-unblock``](#user-unblock)             Unblock the specified user(s).

### Other commands
- [``make``](#make)                       Turns a makefile into a working Drupal codebase.
- [``make-generate``](#make-generate)     Generate a makefile from the current Drupal site.

### Global Options (see \`drush topic core-global-options\` for the full list)
- ``-r \<path\>, --root=\<path\>                                        Drupal root directory to use (default: current directory).``
- ``-l \<http://example.com:8888\>, --uri=\<http://example.com:8888\>``   URI of the drupal site to use (only needed in multisite environments or when running on an alternate port).
- ``-v, --verbose``                                                       Display extra information about the command.
- ``-d, --debug``                                                         Display even more information, including internal messages.
- ``-y, --yes``                                                           Assume 'yes' as answer to all prompts.
- ``-n, --no``                                                            Assume 'no' as answer to all prompts.
- ``-s, --simulate``                                                      Simulate all relevant actions (don't actually change the system).
- ``-p, --pipe``                                                          Emit a compact representation of the command for scripting.
- ``-h, --help``                                                          This help system.
- ``--version``                                                           Show drush version.
- ``--php=\</path/to/file\>``                                             The absolute path to your PHP intepreter, if not 'php' in the path.
- ``-ia, --interactive``                                                  Force interactive mode for commands run on multiple targets (e.g. \`drush @site1,@site2 cc --ia\`).


### Command detail

archive-dump

    Backup your code, files, and database into a single file.

    Examples:
     drush archive-dump                        Write an archive containing 3 sites in it.
     default,example.com,foo.com
     drush archive-dump @sites                 Save archive containing all sites in a multi-site.
     drush archive-dump default                Save archive to custom location.
     --destination=/backups/mysite.tar
     drush archive-dump                        Omits any .git directories found in the tree as well as
     --tar-options="--exclude=.git             sites/default/files.
     --exclude=sites/default/files"
     drush archive-dump                        Placeholder %files is replaced with the real path for
     --tar-options="--exclude=%files"          the current site, and that path is excluded.


    Arguments:
     sites                                     Optional. Site specifications, delimited by commas.
                                               Typically, list subdirectory name(s) under /sites.


    Options:
     --description                             Describe the archive contents.
     --destination                             The full path and filename in which the archive should
                                               be stored. If omitted, it will be saved to the
                                               drush-backups directory and a filename will be
                                               generated.
     --generator                               The generator name to store in the MANIFEST file. The
                                               default is "Drush archive-dump".
     --generatorversion                        The generator version number to store in the MANIFEST
                                               file. The default is 5.7.
     --overwrite                               Do not fail if the destination file exists; overwrite it
                                               instead.
     --pipe                                    Only print the destination of the archive. Useful for
                                               scripts that don't pass --destination.
     --preserve-symlinks                       Preserve symbolic links.
     --tags                                    Add tags to the archive manifest. Delimit multiple by
                                               commas.
     --tar-options                             Options passed thru to the tar command.


    Aliases: ard, archive-backup, arb

archive-restore

    Expand a site archive into a Drupal web site.

    Examples:
     drush archive-restore ./example.tar.gz    Restore the files and databases for all sites in the
                                               archive.
     drush archive-restore ./example.tar.gz    Restore the files and database for example.com site.
     example.com
     drush archive-restore ./example.tar.gz    Restore archive to a custom location.
     --destination=/var/www/example.com/docro
     ot
     drush archive-restore ./example.tar.gz    Restore archive to a new database (and customize
     --db-url=mysql://root:pass@127.0.0.1/dbn  settings.php to point there.).
     ame


    Arguments:
     file                                      The site archive file that should be expanded.
     site name                                 Optional. Which site within the archive you want to
                                               restore. Defaults to all.


    Options:
     --db-prefix                               An optional table prefix to use during restore.
     --db-su                                   Account to use when creating the new database. Optional.
     --db-su-pw                                Password for the "db-su" account. Optional.
     --db-url                                  A Drupal 6 style database URL indicating the target for
                                               database restore. If not provided, the archived
                                               settings.php is used.
     --destination                             Specify where the Drupal site should be expanded,
                                               including the docroot. Defaults to the current working
                                               directory.
     --overwrite                               Allow drush to overwrite any files in the destination.


    Aliases: arr

cache-clear

    Clear a specific cache, or all drupal caches.

    Arguments:
     type                                      The particular cache to clear. Omit this argument to
                                               choose from available caches.


    Aliases: cc

cache-get

    Fetch a cached object and display it.

    Examples:
     drush cache-get schema                    Display the data for the cache id "schema" from the
                                               "cache" bin.
     drush cache-get                           Display the data for the cache id
     update_available_releases update          "update_available_releases" from the "update" bin.


    Arguments:
     cid                                       The id of the object to fetch.
     bin                                       Optional. The cache bin to fetch from.


    Options:
     --format                                  Format to output the object. Use "print_r" for print_r
                                               (default), "export" for var_export, and "json" for JSON.


    Aliases: cg

cache-set

    Cache an object expressed in JSON or var_export() format.

    Arguments:
     cid                                       The id of the object to set.
     data                                      The object to set in the cache. Use '-' to read the
                                               object from STDIN.
     bin                                       Optional. The cache bin to store the object in.
     expire                                    Optional. CACHE_PERMANENT, CACHE_TEMPORARY, or a Unix
                                               timestamp.


    Options:
     --cache-get                               If the object is the result a previous fetch from the
                                               cache, only store the value in the "data" property of
                                               the object in the cache.
     --format                                  Format to parse the object. Use "string" for string
                                               (default), and "json" for JSON.


    Aliases: cs

core-config

    Edit drushrc, site alias, and Drupal settings.php files.

    Examples:
     drush core-config                         Pick from a list of config/alias/settings files. Open
                                               selected in editor.
     drush --bg core-config                    Return to shell prompt as soon as the editor window
                                               opens.
     drush core-config etc                     Edit the global configuration file.
     drush core-config demo.alia               Edit a particular alias file.
     drush core-config sett                    Edit settings.php for the current Drupal site.
     drush core-config --choice=2              Edit the second file in the choice list.


    Arguments:
     filter                                    A substring for filtering the list of files. Omit this
                                               argument to choose from loaded files.


    Options:
     --bg                                      Run editor in the background. Does not work with editors
                                               such as `vi` that run in the terminal.


    Aliases: conf, config

core-cron

    Run all cron hooks in all active modules for specified site.

    Aliases: cron

core-execute

    Execute a shell command. Usually used with a site alias.

    Examples:
     drush core-execute git pull origin  Retrieve latest code from git
     rebase


    Arguments:
     command                                   The shell command to be executed.


    Options:
     --escaped                                 Command string already escaped; do not add additional
                                               quoting.
     --ssh-options                             A string of extra options that will be passed to the ssh
                                               command (e.g. "-p 100")
     --tty                                     Create a tty (e.g. to run an interactive program).


    Aliases: exec, execute

core-quick-drupal

    Download, install, serve and login to Drupal with minimal configuration and dependencies.

    Examples:
     drush qd                                  Download and install stable release of Drupal into a
                                               timestamped directory, start server, and open the site
                                               logged in as admin.
     drush qd --profile=minimal --dev --cache  Fire up dev release of Drupal site with minimal install
     --core=drupal-8.x --yes                   profile.
     drush qd testsite devel                   Fire up stable release (using the cache) of Drupal site
     --server=:8081/admin --browser=firefox    called "testsite", download and enable devel module,
     --cache --yes                             start a server on port 8081 and open /admin in firefox.
     drush qd commercesite                     Download and install the "Commerce Kickstart"
     --core=commerce_kickstart                 distribution/install profile, display watchdog messages
     --profile=commerce_kickstart --cache      on the server console.
     --yes --watchdog


    Arguments:
     site                                      Short name for the site to be created - used as a
                                               directory name and as sqlite file name. Optional - if
                                               omitted timestamped "quick-drupal" directory will be
                                               used instead.
     projects                                  A list of projects to download into the new site. If
                                               projects contain extensions (modules or themes) with the
                                               same name they will be enabled by default. See --enable
                                               option to control this behaviour further.


    Options:
     --account-mail                            Site install option: uid1 email. Defaults to
                                               admin@example.com
     --account-name                            Site install option: uid1 name. Defaults to admin
     --account-pass                            Site install option: uid1 pass. Defaults to a randomly
                                               generated password. If desired, set a fixed password in
                                               drushrc.php.
     --browser                                 Runserver option: If opening a web browser, which
                                               browser to user (defaults to operating system default).
     --cache                                   Cache release XML and tarballs or git clones. Git clones
                                               use git's --reference option.
       --cache-duration-releasexml             Expire duration (in seconds) for release XML. Defaults
                                               to 86400 (24 hours).
     --clean-url                               Site install option: Defaults to 1
     --core                                    Drupal core to download. Defaults to "drupal" (latest
                                               stable version).
     --db-prefix                               Site install option: An optional table prefix to use for
                                               initial install.  Can be a key-value array of
                                               tables/prefixes in a drushrc file (not the command
                                               line).
     --db-su                                   Site install option: Account to use when creating a new
                                               database. Must have Grant permission (mysql only).
                                               Optional.
     --db-su-pw                                Site install option: Password for the "db-su" account.
                                               Optional.
     --db-url                                  Site install option: A Drupal 6 style database URL. Only
                                               required for initial install - not re-install.
     --default-server                          Runserver option: A default addr:port/path to use for
                                               any values not specified as an argument.
     --dev                                     Work with development releases solely.
     --dns                                     Runserver option: Resolve hostnames/IPs using DNS/rDNS
                                               (if possible) to determine binding IPs and/or human
                                               friendly hostnames for URLs and browser.
     --enable                                  Specific extensions (modules or themes) to enable. By
                                               default, extensions with the same name as requested
                                               projects will be enabled automatically.
     --locale                                  Site install option: A short language code. Sets the
                                               default site language. Language files must already be
                                               present. You may use download command to get them.
     --no-server                               Avoid starting runserver (and browser) for the created
                                               Drupal site.
     --notes                                   Download option: Show release notes after each project
                                               is downloaded.
     --php-cgi                                 Runserver option: Name of the php-cgi binary. If it is
                                               not on your current $PATH you should include the full
                                               path. You can include command line parameters to pass
                                               into php-cgi.
     --pipe                                    Download option: Returns a list of the names of the
                                               extensions (modules and themes) contained in the
                                               downloaded projects.
     --profile                                 The install profile to use. Defaults to standard.
     --select                                  Download option: Select the version to download
                                               interactively from a list of available releases.
       --all                                   Shows all available releases instead of a short list of
                                               recent releases.
     --server                                  Runserver option: Which http server to use - either:
                                               "cgi" for a CGI based httpserver (default, requires php
                                               5.3 and php-cgi binary) or "builtin" for php 5.4 built
                                               in http server.
     --site-mail                               Site install option: From: for system mailings. Defaults
                                               to admin@example.com
     --site-name                               Site install option: Defaults to Site-Install
     --skip                                    Download option: Skip automatic downloading of libraries
                                               (c.f. devel).
     --source                                  The base URL which provides project release history in
                                               XML. Defaults to
                                               http://updates.drupal.org/release-history.
     --use-existing                            Use an existing Drupal root, specified with --root.
                                               Overrides --core.
     --variables                               Runserver option: Key-value array of variables to
                                               override in the $conf array for the running site. By
                                               default disables drupal_http_request_fails to avoid
                                               errors on Windows (which supports only one connection at
                                               a time). Comma delimited list of name=value pairs (or
                                               array in drushrc).
     --variant                                 Download option: Only useful for install profiles.
                                               Possible values: 'full', 'projects', 'profile-only'.
     --package-handler=git_drupalorg           Use git.drupal.org to checkout and update projects.
       --gitusername                           Your git username as shown on user/[uid]/edit/git.
                                               Typically, this is set this in drushrc.php. Omitting
                                               this prevents users from pushing changes back to
                                               git.drupal.org.
       --gitsubmodule                          Use git submodules for checking out new projects.
                                               Existing git checkouts are unaffected, and will continue
                                               to (not) use submodules regardless of this setting.
         --gitsubmoduleaddparams               Add options to the `git submodule add` command.
       --gitcheckoutparams                     Add options to the `git checkout` command.
       --gitcloneparams                        Add options to the `git clone` command.
       --gitfetchparams                        Add options to the `git fetch` command.
       --gitpullparams                         Add options to the `git pull` command.
       --gitinfofile                           Inject version info into each .info file.
     --package-handler=wget                    Default package_handler engine. Download project
                                               packages using wget or curl.
     --version-control=bzr                     Quickly add/remove/commit your project changes to
                                               Bazaar.
       --bzrsync                               Automatically add new files to the Bazaar repository and
                                               remove deleted files. Caution.
       --bzrcommit                             Automatically commit changes to Bazaar repository. You
                                               must also use the --bzrsync option.
         --bzrmessage                          Override default commit message which is: Drush
                                               automatic commit. Project   Command:
     --version-control=backup                  Default version_control engine. Backup all project files
                                               before updates.
       --no-backup                             Do not perform backups.
       --backup-dir                            Specify a directory to backup projects into. Defaults to
                                               drush-backups within the home directory of the user
                                               running the command. It is forbidden to specify a
                                               directory inside your drupal root.
     --version-control=svn                     Quickly add/remove/commit your project changes to
                                               Subversion.
       --svnsync                               Automatically add new files to the SVN repository and
                                               remove deleted files. Caution.
       --svncommit                             Automatically commit changes to SVN repository. You must
                                               also using the --svnsync option.
         --svnmessage                          Override default commit message which is: Drush
                                               automatic commit:
       --svnstatusparams                       Add options to the 'svn status' command
       --svnaddparams                          Add options to the `svn add` command
       --svnremoveparams                       Add options to the `svn remove` command
       --svnrevertparams                       Add options to the `svn revert` command
       --svncommitparams                       Add options to the `svn commit` command


    Aliases: qd

core-requirements

    Provides information about things that may be wrong in your Drupal installation, if any.

    Examples:
     drush core-requirements                   Show all status lines from the Status Report admin page.
     drush core-requirements --severity=2      Show only the red lines from the Status Report admin
                                               page.
     drush core-requirements --pipe            Print out a short report in the format "identifier:
                                               severity", where severity 2=error, 1=warning, and
                                               0/-1=OK


    Options:
     --ignore                                  Comma-separated list of requirements to remove from
                                               output. Run with --pipe to see key values to use.
     --severity=<3>                            Only show status report messages with a severity greater
                                               than or equal to the specified value.


    Aliases: status-report, rq

core-rsync

    Rsync the Drupal tree to/from another server using ssh.

    Examples:
     drush rsync @dev @stage                   Rsync Drupal root from dev to stage (one of which must
                                               be local).
     drush rsync ./ @stage:%files/img          Rsync all files in the current directory to the 'img'
                                               directory in the file storage folder on stage.


    Arguments:
     source                                    May be rsync path or site alias. See rsync documentation
                                               and example.aliases.drushrc.php.
     destination                               May be rsync path or site alias. See rsync documentation
                                               and example.aliases.drushrc.php.


    Options:
     --RSYNC-FLAG                              Most rsync flags passed to drush sync will be passed on
                                               to rsync.  See rsync documentation.
     --exclude-conf                            Excludes settings.php from being rsynced.  Default.
     --exclude-files                           Exclude the files directory.
     --exclude-other-sites                     Exclude all directories in "sites/" except for
                                               "sites/all" and the site directory for the site being
                                               synced.  Note: if the site directory is different
                                               between the source and destination, use --exclude-sites
                                               followed by "drush rsync @from:%site @to:%site"
     --exclude-paths                           List of paths to exclude, seperated by : (Unix-based
                                               systems) or ; (Windows).
     --exclude-sites                           Exclude all directories in "sites/" except for
                                               "sites/all".
     --include-conf                            Allow settings.php to be rsynced. Default is to exclude
                                               settings.php.
     --include-paths                           List of paths to include, seperated by : (Unix-based
                                               systems) or ; (Windows).
     --include-vcs                             Include special version control directories (e.g. .svn).
                                                Default is to exclude vcs files.
     --mode                                    The unary flags to pass to rsync; --mode=rultz implies
                                               rsync -rultz.  Default is -akz.


    Aliases: rsync

core-status

    Provides a birds-eye view of the current Drupal installation, if any.

    Examples:
     drush core-status version                 Show all status lines that contain version information.
     drush core-status --pipe                  A list key=value items separated by line breaks.
     drush core-status drush-version --pipe    Emit just the drush version with no label.


    Arguments:
     item                                      Optional.  The status item line(s) to display.


    Options:
     --full                                    Show all drush aliases in the report, even if there are
                                               a lot.
     --show-passwords                          Show database password.


    Aliases: status, st

core-topic

    Read detailed documentation on a given topic.

    Examples:
     drush topic                               Show all available topics.
     drush topic docs-context                  Show documentation for the drush context API
     drush docs-context                        Show documentation for the drush context API


    Arguments:
     topic name                                The name of the topic you wish to view. If omitted, list
                                               all topic descriptions (and names in parenthesis).


    Aliases: topic

drupal-directory

    Return the filesystem path for modules/themes and other key folders.

    Examples:
     cd `drush dd devel`                       Navigate into the devel module directory
     cd `drush dd`                             Navigate to the root of your Drupal site
     cd `drush dd files`                       Navigate to the files directory.
     drush dd @alias:%files                    Print the path to the files directory on the site
                                               @alias.
     edit `drush dd devel`/devel.module        Open devel module in your editor (customize 'edit' for
                                               your editor)


    Arguments:
     target                                    A module/theme name, or special names like root, files,
                                               private, or an alias : path alias string such as
                                               @alias:%files. Defaults to root.


    Options:
     --component                               The portion of the evaluated path to return.  Defaults
                                               to 'path'; 'name' returns the site alias of the target.
     --local                                   Reject any target that specifies a remote site.


    Aliases: dd

help

    Drush provides an extensive help system that describes both drush commands and topics of general
    interest.  Use `drush help --filter` to present a list of command categories to view, and `drush
    topic` for a list of topics that go more in-depth on how to use and extend drush.

    Examples:
     drush                                     List all commands.
     drush --filter=devel_generate             Show only commands defined in devel_generate.drush.inc
     drush help pm-download                    Show help for one command.
     drush help dl                             Show help for one command using an alias.


    Arguments:
     command                                   A command name, or command alias.


    Options:
     --filter=[category]                       Restrict command list to those commands defined in the
                                               specified file. Omit value to choose from a list of
                                               names.
     --html                                    Print help for all commands in HTML format.
     --pipe                                    A list of available commands, one per line.
     --sort                                    Sort commands in alphabetical order. drush waits for
                                               full bootstrap before printing any commands when this
                                               option is used.

image-flush

    Flush all derived images for a given style.

    Examples:
     drush image-flush                         Pick an image style and then delete its images.
     drush image-flush thumbnail               Delete all thumbnail images.
     drush image-flush --all                   Flush all derived images. They will be regenerated on
                                               the fly.


    Arguments:
     style                                     An image style machine name. If not provided, user may
                                               choose from a list of names.


    Options:
     --all                                     Flush all derived images

php-eval

    Evaluate arbitrary php code after bootstrapping Drupal (if available).

    Examples:
     drush php-eval "variable_set('hello',  Sets the hello variable using Drupal API.
     'world');"


    Arguments:
     code                                      PHP code


    Aliases: eval, ev

php-script

    Runs the given php script(s) after a full Drupal bootstrap. A useful alternative to eval command
    when your php is lengthy or you can't be bothered to figure out bash quoting. If you plan to share a
    script with others, consider making a full drush command instead, since that's more
    self-documenting.  Drush provides commandline options to the script via
    drush_get_option('option-name'), and commandline arguments can be accessed either via
    drush_get_arguments(), which returns all arguments in an array, or drush_shift(), which removes the
    next argument from the list and returns it.

    Examples:
     drush php-script scratch                  Run scratch.php script. See commands/core directory.
     drush php-script example                  Run script from specified paths
     --script-path=/path/to/scripts:/another/
     path
     drush php-script                          List all available scripts.

     #!/usr/bin/env drush                      Execute php code with a full Drupal bootstrap directly
                      Additional paths to search for scripts, separated by :
                                               (Unix-based systems) or ; (Windows).


    Aliases: scr

queue-list

    Returns a list of all defined queues

    Options:
     --pipe                                    Return a comma delimited list of queues.

queue-run

    Run Drupal queue workers. As opposed to "drush cron" that can only be run one at a time on a single
    site, "drush queue-run" can be invoked as many times as the server load allows.

    Arguments:
     queue_name                                The name of the queue to run, as defined in either
                                               hook_queue_info or hook_cron_queue_info.

search-index

    Index the remaining search items without wiping the index.

search-reindex

    Force the search index to be rebuilt.

    Options:
     --immediate                               Rebuild the index immediately, instead of waiting for
                                               cron.

search-status

    Show how many items remain to be indexed out of the total.

    Options:
     --pipe                                    Display in the format remaining/total for processing by
                                               scripts.

self-update

    Check to see if there is a newer Drush release available.

    Aliases: selfupdate

shell-alias

    Print a shell alias record.

    Examples:
     drush shell-alias                         List all alias records known to drush.
     drush shell-alias pull                    Print the value of the shell alias 'pull'.


    Arguments:
     alias                                     Shell alias to print


    Aliases: sha

site-alias

    Print an alias record.

    Examples:
     drush site-alias                          List all alias records known to drush.
     drush site-alias @dev                     Print an alias record for the alias 'dev'.


    Arguments:
     site                                      Site specification to print


    Options:
     --alias-name                              For a single alias, set the name to use in the output.
     --component                               Print only the specified element from the full alias
                                               record.
     --full                                    Print the full alias record for each site.  Default when
                                               aliases are specified on the command line.
     --local                                   Only display sites that are available on the local
                                               system (remote-site not set, and Drupal root exists).
     --no-db                                   Do not include the database record in the full alias
                                               record (default).
     --pipe                                    Print the long-form site specification for each site.
     --short                                   Print only the site alias name.  Default when no command
                                               line arguments are specified.
     --table                                   Display the alias name, root, uri and host in a table.
     --with-db                                 Include the databases structure in the full alias
                                               record.
     --with-db-url                             Include the short-form db-url in the full alias record.
     --with-optional                           Include optional default items.


    Aliases: sa

site-install

    Install Drupal along with modules/themes/configuration using the specified install profile.

    Examples:
     drush site-install expert --locale=uk     (Re)install using the expert install profile. Set
                                               default language to Ukranian.
     drush site-install                        Install using the specified DB params.
     --db-url=mysql://root:pass@localhost:por
     t/dbname
     drush site-install                        Install using SQLite (D7+ only).
     --db-url=sqlite://sites/example.com/file
     s/.ht.sqlite
     drush site-install --account-name=joe     Re-install with specified uid1 credentials.
     --account-pass=mom
     drush site-install standard               Pass additional arguments to the profile (D7 example
     install_configure_form.site_default_coun  shown here - for D6, omit the form id).
     try=FR
     my_profile_form.my_settings.key=value


    Arguments:
     profile                                   the install profile you wish to run. defaults to
                                               'default' in D6, 'standard' in D7+
     key=value...                              any additional settings you wish to pass to the profile.
                                               Fully supported on D7+, partially supported on D6
                                               (single step configure forms only). The key is in the
                                               form [form name].[parameter name] on D7 or just
                                               [parameter name] on D6.


    Options:
     --account-mail                            uid1 email. Defaults to admin@example.com
     --account-name                            uid1 name. Defaults to admin
     --account-pass                            uid1 pass. Defaults to a randomly generated password. If
                                               desired, set a fixed password in drushrc.php.
     --clean-url                               Defaults to 1
     --db-prefix                               An optional table prefix to use for initial install.
                                               Can be a key-value array of tables/prefixes in a drushrc
                                               file (not the command line).
     --db-su=                            Account to use when creating a new database. Must have
                                               Grant permission (mysql only). Optional.
     --db-su-pw=                         Password for the "db-su" account. Optional.
     --db-url=                                         install - not re-install.
     --locale=                          A short language code. Sets the default site language.
                                               Language files must already be present. You may use
                                               download command to get them.
     --site-mail                               From: for system mailings. Defaults to admin@example.com
     --site-name                               Defaults to Site-Install
     --sites-subdir=           Name of directory under 'sites' which should be created.
                                               Only needed when the subdirectory does not already
                                               exist. Defaults to 'default'


    Aliases: si

site-reset

    Reset a persistently set site.

site-set

    Set a site alias to work on that will persist for the current session.

    Examples:
     drush site-set @dev                       Set the current session to use the @dev alias.
     drush site-set                            Set the current session to use a site specification.
     user@server/path/to/drupal#sitename
     drush site-set -                          Go back to the previously-set site (like `cd -`).


    Arguments:
     site                                      Site specification to use, or "-" for previous site.


    Aliases: use

site-ssh

    Connect to a Drupal site's server via SSH for an interactive session or to run a shell command

    Examples:
     drush @mysite ssh                         Open an interactive shell on @mysite's server.
     drush @prod ssh 'ls /tmp'                 Run "ls /tmp" on @prod site. If @prod is a site list,
                                               then ls will be executed on each site.


    Arguments:
     site-alias                                A remote site alias. Can be an alias list.
     bash                                      Bash to execute on target. Optional, except when
                                               site-alias is a list.


    Options:
     --escaped                                 Command string already escaped; do not add additional
                                               quoting.
     --ssh-options                             A string of extra options that will be passed to the ssh
                                               command (e.g. "-p 100")
     --tty                                     Create a tty (e.g. to run an interactive program).


    Aliases: ssh

test-clean

    Clean temporary tables and files.

test-run

    Run tests. Note that you must use the --uri option.

    Examples:
     test-run                                  List all available classes and groups.
     sudo -u apache test-run --all             Run all available tests. Avoid permission related
                                               failures by running as web server user.
     test-run XMLRPCBasicTestCase              Run one test class.
     test-run XML-RPC                          Run all classes in a XML-RPC group.
     test-run XML-RPC,Filter                   Run all tests from multiple groups/classes.
     test-run XMLRPCBasicTestCase              Run particular methods in the specified class or group.
     --methods="testListMethods,
     testInvalidMessageParsing"


    Arguments:
     targets                                   A test class, a test group. If omitted, a list of test
                                               classes and test groups is presented. Delimit multiple
                                               targets using commas.


    Options:
     --all                                     Run all available tests
     --dirty                                   Skip cleanup of temporary tables and files. Helpful for
                                               reading debug() messages and other post-mortem
                                               forensics.
     --methods                                 A comma delimited list of methods that should be run
                                               within the test class. Defaults to all methods.
     --xml                                     Output verbose test results to a specified directory
                                               using the JUnit test reporting format. Useful for
                                               integrating with Jenkins.

updatedb

    Apply any database updates required (as with running update.php).

    Aliases: updb

usage-send

    Send anonymous Drush usage information to statistics logging site.  Usage statistics contain the
    Drush command name and the Drush option names, but no arguments or option values.

    Examples:
     drush usage-send                          Immediately send cached usage statistics.
     $options['drush_usage_send']  = TRUE;     Specify in a .drushrc.php file that usage information
                                               should be sent.
     $options['drush_usage_size']  = 10240;    Specify the frequency (file size) that usage information
                                               should be sent.


    Aliases: usend

usage-show

    Show Drush usage information that has been logged but not sent.  Usage statistics contain the Drush
    command name and the Drush option names, but no arguments or option values.

    Examples:
     drush usage-show                          Show cached usage statistics.
     $options['drush_usage_log']  = TRUE;      Specify in a .drushrc.php file that usage information
                                               should be logged locally in a usage statistics file.


    Aliases: ushow

variable-delete

    Delete a variable.

    Examples:
     drush vdel user_pictures                  Delete the user_pictures variable.
     drush vdel u                              Choose from a list of variables beginning with "u" to
                                               delete.
     drush vdel -y --exact maintenance_mode    Bring the site back online, skipping confirmation.
                                               Variable is rewritten to site_offline for Drupal 6.


    Arguments:
     name                                      The name of a variable or the first few letters of its
                                               name.


    Options:
     --exact                                   Only delete the one variable that exactly matches the
                                               specified name.
     --yes                                     Skip confirmation if only one variable name matches.


    Aliases: vdel

variable-get

    Get a list of some or all site variables and values.

    Examples:
     drush vget                                List all variables and values.
     drush vget user                           List all variables containing the string "user".
     drush vget site_mail --exact              Show the variable with the exact key "site_mail".


    Arguments:
     name                                      A string to filter the variables by. Variables whose
                                               name contains the string will be listed.


    Options:
     --exact                                   Only get the one variable that exactly matches the
                                               specified name.
     --format=                         Format to output the object. Use "print_r" for print_r
                                               (default), "export" for var_export, and "json" for JSON.
     --pipe                                    A synonym for --format=export. Useful for pasting into
                                               code.


    Aliases: vget

variable-set

    Set a variable.

    Examples:
     drush vset --yes preprocess_css TRUE      Set the preprocess_css variable to true. Skip
                                               confirmation if variable already exists.
     drush vset --exact maintenance_mode 1     Take the site offline; skips confirmation even if
                                               maintenance_mode variable does not exist. Variable is
                                               rewritten to site_offline for Drupal 6.
     drush vset pr TRUE                        Choose from a list of variables beginning with "pr" to
                                               set to (bool)true.
     php -r "print                             Set a variable to a complex value (e.g. array)
     json_encode(array('drupal',
     'simpletest'));"  | drush vset
     --format=json
     project_dependency_excluded_dependencies
     -


    Arguments:
     name                                      The name of a variable or the first few letters of its
                                               name.
     value                                     The value to assign to the variable. Use '-' to read the
                                               object from STDIN.


    Options:
     --exact                                   The exact name of the variable to set has been provided;
                                               do not prompt for similarly-named variables.
     --format=                        Format to parse the object. Use "auto" to detect format
                                               from value (default), "string", "integer" or "boolean"
                                               for corresponding primitive type, and "json" for JSON.
     --yes                                     Skip confirmation if only one variable name matches.


    Aliases: vset

version

    Show drush version.

    Options:
     --pipe                                    Print just the version number, and nothing else.
     --self-update                             Check for pending updates to Drush itself. Set to 0 to
                                               disable.

watchdog-delete

    Delete watchdog messages. Arguments or options must be provided to specify which messages to delete.

    Examples:
     drush watchdog-delete all                 Delete all messages.
     drush watchdog-delete 64                  Delete messages with id 64.
     drush watchdog-delete "cron run           Delete messages containing the string "cron run
     succesful"                                succesful".
     drush watchdog-delete --severity=notice   Delete all messages with a severity of notice.
     drush watchdog-delete --type=cron         Delete all messages of type cron.


    Options:
     --severity                                Delete messages of a given severity level.
     --type                                    Delete messages of a given type.


    Aliases: wd-del, wd-delete

watchdog-list

    Show available message types and severity levels. A prompt will ask for a choice to show watchdog
    messages.

    Aliases: wd-list

watchdog-show

    Show watchdog messages. Arguments and options can be combined to configure which messages to show.

    Examples:
     drush watchdog-show                       Show a listing of most recent 10 messages.
     drush watchdog-show 64                    Show in detail message with id 64.
     drush watchdog-show "cron run succesful"  Show a listing of most recent 10 messages containing the
                                               string "cron run succesful".
     drush watchdog-show --count=46            Show a listing of most recent 46 messages.
     drush watchdog-show --severity=notice     Show a listing of most recent 10 messages with a
                                               severity of notice.
     drush watchdog-show --type=php            Show a listing of most recent 10 messages of type php.
     drush watchdog-show --tail --full         Show a listing of most recent 10 messages with extended
                                               information about each one and continue showing messages
                                               as they are registered in the watchdog.
     drush watchdog-show --tail                Do a tail of the watchdog with a delay of two seconds
     --sleep-delay=2                           between each poll to the database.


    Arguments:
     wid                                       Optional id of a watchdog message to show in detail. If
                                               not provided, a listing of most recent 10 messages will
                                               be displayed. Alternatively if a string is provided,
                                               watchdog messages will be filtered by it.


    Options:
     --count                                   The number of messages to show. Defaults to 10.
     --full                                    Return extended information about each message
     --severity                                Restrict to messages of a given severity level.
     --sleep-delay                             To be used in conjunction with --tail. This is the
                                               number of seconds to wait between each poll to the
                                               database. Delay is 1 second by default.
     --tail                                    Continuously show new watchdog messages until
                                               interrupted.
     --type                                    Restrict to messages of a given type.


    Aliases: wd-show, ws

runserver

    Runs a lightweight built in http server for development.
     - Don't use this for production, it is neither scalable nor secure for this use.
     - If you run multiple servers simultaniously, you will need to assign each a unique port.
     - Use Ctrl-C or equivalent to stop the server when complete.

    Examples:
     drush rs 8080                             Start runserver on 127.0.0.1, port 8080.
     drush rs 10.0.0.28:80                     Start runserver on 10.0.0.28, port 80.
     drush rs --php-cgi=php5-cgi --dns         Start runserver on localhost (using rDNS to determine
     localhost:8888/user                       binding IP), port 8888, and open /user in browser. Use
                                               "php5-cgi" as the php-cgi binary.
     drush rs /                                Start runserver on default IP/port (127.0.0.1, port
                                               8888), and open / in browser.
     drush rs                                  Use a default (would be specified in your drushrc) that
     --default-server=127.0.0.1:8080/ -        starts runserver on port 8080, and opens a browser to
                                               the front page. Set path to a single hyphen path in
                                               argument to prevent opening browser for this session.
     drush rs --server=builtin :9000/admin     Start builtin php 5.4 runserver on 127.0.0.1, port 9000,
                                               and open /admin in browser. Note that you need a colon
                                               when you specify port and path, but no IP.


    Arguments:
     addr:port/path                            Host IP address and port number to bind to and path to
                                               open in web browser. Format is addr:port/path, default
                                               127.0.0.1:8888, all elements optional. See examples for
                                               shorthand.


    Options:
     --browser                                 If opening a web browser, which browser to user
                                               (defaults to operating system default).
     --default-server                          A default addr:port/path to use for any values not
                                               specified as an argument.
     --dns                                     Resolve hostnames/IPs using DNS/rDNS (if possible) to
                                               determine binding IPs and/or human friendly hostnames
                                               for URLs and browser.
     --php-cgi                                 Name of the php-cgi binary. If it is not on your current
                                               $PATH you should include the full path. You can include
                                               command line parameters to pass into php-cgi.
     --server                                  Which http server to use - either: "cgi" for a CGI based
                                               httpserver (default, requires php 5.3 and php-cgi
                                               binary) or "builtin" for php 5.4 built in http server.
     --user                                    If opening a web browser, automatically log in as this
                                               user (user ID or username).
     --variables                               Key-value array of variables to override in the $conf
                                               array for the running site. By default disables
                                               drupal_http_request_fails to avoid errors on Windows
                                               (which supports only one connection at a time). Comma
                                               delimited list of name=value pairs (or array in
                                               drushrc).


    Aliases: rs

field-clone

    Clone a field and all its instances.

    Examples:
     field-clone tags labels                   Copy 'tags' field into a new field 'labels' field which
                                               has same instances.
     open `field-clone tags labels`            Clone field and then open field edit forms for
                                               refinement.


    Arguments:
     source_field_name                         Name of field that will be cloned
     target_field_name                         Name of new, cloned field.

field-create

    Create fields and instances. Returns urls for field editing.

    Examples:
     drush field-create article                Define new article fields via interactive prompts.
     open `drush field-create article`         Define new article fields and then open field edit form
                                               for refinement.
     drush field-create article                Create two new fields.
     city,text,text_textfield
     subtitle,text,text_textfield


    Arguments:
     bundle                                    Content type (for nodes). Name of bundle to attach
                                               fields to. Required.
     field_spec                                Comma delimited triple in the form:
                                               field_name,field_type,widget_name. If widget_name is
                                               omitted, the default widget will be used. Separate
                                               multiple fields by space. If omitted, a wizard will
                                               prompt you.


    Options:
     --entity_type                             Type of entity (e.g. node, user, comment). Defaults to
                                               node.

field-delete

    Delete a field and its instances.

    Examples:
     field-delete city                         Delete the city field and any instances it might have.
     field-delete city --bundle=article        Delete the city instance on the article bundle


    Arguments:
     field_name                                Name of field to delete.


    Options:
     --bundle                                  Only delete the instance attached to this bundle. If
                                               omitted, admin can choose to delete one instance or
                                               whole field.
     --entity_type                             Disambiguate a particular bundle from identically named
                                               bundles. Usually not needed.

field-info

    View information about fields, field_types, and widgets.

    Examples:
     field-info types                          Show a table which lists all field types and their
                                               available widgets


    Arguments:
     type                                      Recognized values: fields, types. If omitted, a choice
                                               list appears.


    Options:
     --pipe                                    Return field information table as CSV.

field-update

    Return URL for field editing web page.

    Examples:
     field-update comment_body                 Quickly navigate to a field edit web page.


    Arguments:
     field_name                                Name of field that needs updating.

pm-disable

    Disable one or more extensions (modules or themes). Disable dependant extensions as well.

    Arguments:
     extensions                                A list of modules or themes. You can use the * wildcard
                                               at the end of extension names to disable multiple
                                               matches.


    Aliases: dis

pm-download

    Download Drupal core or projects from drupal.org (Drupal core, modules, themes or profiles) and
    other sources. It will automatically figure out which project version you want based on its
    recommended release, or you may specify a particular version.

    If no --destination is provided, then destination depends on the project type:
      - Profiles will be downloaded to profiles/ in your Drupal root.
      - Modules and themes will be downloaded to the site specific directory
    (sites/example.com/modules|themes) if available, or to sites/all/modules|themes.
      - If you're downloading drupal core or you are not running the command within a bootstrapped
    drupal site, the default location is the current directory.
      - Drush commands will be relocated to /usr/share/drush/commands (if available) or ~/.drush.
    Relocation is determined once the project is downloaded by examining its content. Note you can
    provide your own function in a commandfile to determine the relocation of any project.

    Examples:
     drush dl drupal                           Download latest recommended release of Drupal core.
     drush dl drupal-7.x                       Download latest 7.x development version of Drupal core.
     drush dl drupal-6                         Download latest recommended release of Drupal 6.x.
     drush dl cck zen                          Download latest versions of CCK and Zen projects.
     drush dl og-1.3                           Download a specfic version of Organic groups module for
                                               my version of Drupal.
     drush dl diff-6.x-2.x                     Download a specific development branch of diff module
                                               for a specific Drupal version.
     drush dl views --select                   Show a list of recent releases of the views project,
                                               prompt for which one to download.
     drush dl webform --dev                    Download the latest dev release of webform.
     drush dl webform --cache                  Download webform. Fetch and populate the download cache
                                               as needed.


    Arguments:
     projects                                  A comma delimited list of drupal.org project names, with
                                               optional version. Defaults to 'drupal'


    Options:
     --cache                                   Cache release XML and tarballs or git clones. Git clones
                                               use git's --reference option.
       --cache-duration-releasexml             Expire duration (in seconds) for release XML. Defaults
                                               to 86400 (24 hours).
     --default-major=<6>                       Specify the default major version of modules to download
                                               when there is no bootstrapped Drupal site.  Defaults to
                                               "7".
     --destination=                      Path to which the project will be copied. If you're
                                               providing a relative path, note it is relative to the
                                               drupal root (if bootstrapped).
     --dev                                     Work with development releases solely.
     --drupal-project-rename                   Alternate name for "drupal-x.y" directory when
                                               downloading Drupal project. Defaults to "drupal".
     --notes                                   Show release notes after each project is downloaded.
     --pipe                                    Returns a list of the names of the extensions (modules
                                               and themes) contained in the downloaded projects.
     --select                                  Select the version to download interactively from a list
                                               of available releases.
       --all                                   Shows all available releases instead of a short list of
                                               recent releases.
     --skip                                    Skip automatic downloading of libraries (c.f. devel).
     --source                                  The base URL which provides project release history in
                                               XML. Defaults to
                                               http://updates.drupal.org/release-history.
     --use-site-dir                            Force to use the site specific directory. It will create
                                               the directory if it doesn't exist. If --destination is
                                               also present this option will be ignored.
     --variant=                          Only useful for install profiles. Possible values:
                                               'full', 'projects', 'profile-only'.
     --package-handler=wget                    Default package_handler engine. Download project
                                               packages using wget or curl.
     --package-handler=git_drupalorg           Use git.drupal.org to checkout and update projects.
       --gitusername                           Your git username as shown on user/[uid]/edit/git.
                                               Typically, this is set this in drushrc.php. Omitting
                                               this prevents users from pushing changes back to
                                               git.drupal.org.
       --gitsubmodule                          Use git submodules for checking out new projects.
                                               Existing git checkouts are unaffected, and will continue
                                               to (not) use submodules regardless of this setting.
         --gitsubmoduleaddparams               Add options to the `git submodule add` command.
       --gitcheckoutparams                     Add options to the `git checkout` command.
       --gitcloneparams                        Add options to the `git clone` command.
       --gitfetchparams                        Add options to the `git fetch` command.
       --gitpullparams                         Add options to the `git pull` command.
       --gitinfofile                           Inject version info into each .info file.
     --version-control=svn                     Quickly add/remove/commit your project changes to
                                               Subversion.
       --svnsync                               Automatically add new files to the SVN repository and
                                               remove deleted files. Caution.
       --svncommit                             Automatically commit changes to SVN repository. You must
                                               also using the --svnsync option.
         --svnmessage                          Override default commit message which is: Drush
                                               automatic commit:
       --svnstatusparams                       Add options to the 'svn status' command
       --svnaddparams                          Add options to the `svn add` command
       --svnremoveparams                       Add options to the `svn remove` command
       --svnrevertparams                       Add options to the `svn revert` command
       --svncommitparams                       Add options to the `svn commit` command
     --version-control=backup                  Default version_control engine. Backup all project files
                                               before updates.
       --no-backup                             Do not perform backups.
       --backup-dir                            Specify a directory to backup projects into. Defaults to
                                               drush-backups within the home directory of the user
                                               running the command. It is forbidden to specify a
                                               directory inside your drupal root.
     --version-control=bzr                     Quickly add/remove/commit your project changes to
                                               Bazaar.
       --bzrsync                               Automatically add new files to the Bazaar repository and
                                               remove deleted files. Caution.
       --bzrcommit                             Automatically commit changes to Bazaar repository. You
                                               must also use the --bzrsync option.
         --bzrmessage                          Override default commit message which is: Drush
                                               automatic commit. Project   Command:


    Aliases: dl

pm-enable

    Enable one or more extensions (modules or themes). Enable dependant extensions as well.

    Arguments:
     extensions                                A list of modules or themes. You can use the * wildcard
                                               at the end of extension names to enable all matches.


    Options:
     --resolve-dependencies                    Attempt to download any missing dependencies. At the
                                               moment, only works when the module name is the same as
                                               the project name.
     --skip                                    Skip automatic downloading of libraries (c.f. devel).


    Aliases: en

pm-info

    Show detailed info for one or more extensions (modules or themes).

    Arguments:
     extensions                                A list of modules or themes. You can use the * wildcard
                                               at the end of extension names to show info for multiple
                                               matches. If no argument is provided it will show info
                                               for all available extensions.


    Aliases: pmi

pm-list

    Show a list of available extensions (modules and themes).

    Options:
     --core                                    Filter out extensions that are not in drupal core.
     --no-core                                 Filter out extensions that are provided by drupal core.
     --package                                 Filter by project packages. You can use multiple comma
                                               separated values. (i.e. --package="Core -
                                               required,Other").
     --pipe                                    Returns a whitespace delimited list of the names of the
                                               resulting extensions.
     --status=                       Filter by extension status. Choices: enabled, disabled
                                               and/or 'not installed'. You can use multiple comma
                                               separated values. (i.e. --status="disabled,not
                                               installed").
     --type=                           Filter by extension type. Choices: module, theme.


    Aliases: pml

pm-refresh

    Refresh update status information.

    Aliases: rf

pm-releasenotes

    Print release notes for given projects.

    Examples:
     drush rln cck                             Prints the release notes for the recommended version of
                                               CCK project.
     drush rln token-1.13                      View release notes of a specfic version of the Token
                                               project for my version of Drupal.
     drush rln pathauto zen                    View release notes for the recommended version of
                                               Pathauto and Zen projects.


    Arguments:
     projects                                  A list of project names, with optional version. Defaults
                                               to 'drupal'


    Options:
     --dev                                     Work with development releases solely.
     --html                                    Display releasenotes in HTML rather than plain text.
     --source                                  The base URL which provides project release history in
                                               XML. Defaults to
                                               http://updates.drupal.org/release-history.


    Aliases: rln

pm-releases

    View all releases for a given drupal.org project. Useful for deciding which version to
    install/update.

    Examples:
     drush pm-releases cck zen                 View releases for cck and Zen projects for your Drupal
                                               version.


    Arguments:
     projects                                  A list of drupal.org project names. Defaults to 'drupal'


    Options:
     --dev                                     Work with development releases solely.
     --source                                  The base URL which provides project release history in
                                               XML. Defaults to
                                               http://updates.drupal.org/release-history.


    Aliases: rl

##pm-uninstall

    Uninstall one or more modules.

    Arguments:
     modules                                   A list of modules.

##pm-update

    Display available update information for Drupal core and all enabled projects and allow updating to
    latest recommended releases. Also apply any database updates required (same as pm-updatecode +
    updatedb). Note: The user is asked to confirm before the actual update. Backups are performed unless
    directory is already under version control. Updated projects can potentially break your site. It is
    NOT recommended to update production sites without prior testing.

    Arguments:
     projects                                  Optional. A list of installed projects to update.


    Options:
     --cache                                   Cache release XML and tarballs or git clones. Git clones
                                               use git's --reference option.
     --lock                                    Add a persistent lock to remove the specified projects
                                               from consideration during updates.  Locks may be removed
                                               with the --unlock parameter, or overridden by
                                               specifically naming the project as a parameter to
                                               pm-update or pm-updatecode.  The lock does not affect
                                               pm-download.  See also the update-advanced project for
                                               similar and improved functionality.
       --lock-message=                A brief message explaining why a project is being
                                               locked; displayed during pm-updatecode.  Optional.
       --unlock                                Remove the persistent lock from the specified projects
                                               so that they may be updated again.
     --no-core                                 Only update modules and skip the core update.
     --notes                                   Show release notes for each project to be updated.
     --pipe                                    Returns a whitespace delimited list of projects with any
                                               of its extensions enabled and their respective version
                                               and update information, one project per line. Order:
                                               project name, current version, recommended version,
                                               update status.
     --security-only                           Only update modules that have security updates
                                               available. However, if there were other releases of a
                                               module between the installed version the security
                                               update, other changes to features or functionality may
                                               occur.
     --package-handler=wget                    Default package_handler engine. Download project
                                               packages using wget or curl.
     --package-handler=git_drupalorg           Use git.drupal.org to checkout and update projects.
       --gitusername                           Your git username as shown on user/[uid]/edit/git.
                                               Typically, this is set this in drushrc.php. Omitting
                                               this prevents users from pushing changes back to
                                               git.drupal.org.
       --gitsubmodule                          Use git submodules for checking out new projects.
                                               Existing git checkouts are unaffected, and will continue
                                               to (not) use submodules regardless of this setting.
         --gitsubmoduleaddparams               Add options to the `git submodule add` command.
       --gitcheckoutparams                     Add options to the `git checkout` command.
       --gitcloneparams                        Add options to the `git clone` command.
       --gitfetchparams                        Add options to the `git fetch` command.
       --gitpullparams                         Add options to the `git pull` command.
       --gitinfofile                           Inject version info into each .info file.
     --version-control=backup                  Default version_control engine. Backup all project files
                                               before updates.
       --no-backup                             Do not perform backups.
       --backup-dir                            Specify a directory to backup projects into. Defaults to
                                               drush-backups within the home directory of the user
                                               running the command. It is forbidden to specify a
                                               directory inside your drupal root.
     --version-control=bzr                     Quickly add/remove/commit your project changes to
                                               Bazaar.
       --bzrsync                               Automatically add new files to the Bazaar repository and
                                               remove deleted files. Caution.
       --bzrcommit                             Automatically commit changes to Bazaar repository. You
                                               must also use the --bzrsync option.
         --bzrmessage                          Override default commit message which is: Drush
                                               automatic commit. Project   Command:
     --version-control=svn                     Quickly add/remove/commit your project changes to
                                               Subversion.
       --svnsync                               Automatically add new files to the SVN repository and
                                               remove deleted files. Caution.
       --svncommit                             Automatically commit changes to SVN repository. You must
                                               also using the --svnsync option.
         --svnmessage                          Override default commit message which is: Drush
                                               automatic commit:
       --svnstatusparams                       Add options to the 'svn status' command
       --svnaddparams                          Add options to the `svn add` command
       --svnremoveparams                       Add options to the `svn remove` command
       --svnrevertparams                       Add options to the `svn revert` command
       --svncommitparams                       Add options to the `svn commit` command


    Aliases: up

pm-updatecode

    Display available update information for Drupal core and all enabled projects and allow updating to
    latest recommended releases. Note: The user is asked to confirm before the actual update. Backups
    are performed unless directory is already under version control. Updated projects can potentially
    break your site. It is NOT recommended to update production sites without prior testing.

    Arguments:
     projects                                  Optional. A list of installed projects to update.


    Options:
     --cache                                   Cache release XML and tarballs or git clones. Git clones
                                               use git's --reference option.
     --lock                                    Add a persistent lock to remove the specified projects
                                               from consideration during updates.  Locks may be removed
                                               with the --unlock parameter, or overridden by
                                               specifically naming the project as a parameter to
                                               pm-update or pm-updatecode.  The lock does not affect
                                               pm-download.  See also the update-advanced project for
                                               similar and improved functionality.
       --lock-message=                A brief message explaining why a project is being
                                               locked; displayed during pm-updatecode.  Optional.
       --unlock                                Remove the persistent lock from the specified projects
                                               so that they may be updated again.
     --no-core                                 Only update modules and skip the core update.
     --notes                                   Show release notes for each project to be updated.
     --pipe                                    Returns a whitespace delimited list of projects with any
                                               of its extensions enabled and their respective version
                                               and update information, one project per line. Order:
                                               project name, current version, recommended version,
                                               update status.
     --security-only                           Only update modules that have security updates
                                               available. However, if there were other releases of a
                                               module between the installed version the security
                                               update, other changes to features or functionality may
                                               occur.
     --package-handler=wget                    Default package_handler engine. Download project
                                               packages using wget or curl.
     --package-handler=git_drupalorg           Use git.drupal.org to checkout and update projects.
       --gitusername                           Your git username as shown on user/[uid]/edit/git.
                                               Typically, this is set this in drushrc.php. Omitting
                                               this prevents users from pushing changes back to
                                               git.drupal.org.
       --gitsubmodule                          Use git submodules for checking out new projects.
                                               Existing git checkouts are unaffected, and will continue
                                               to (not) use submodules regardless of this setting.
         --gitsubmoduleaddparams               Add options to the `git submodule add` command.
       --gitcheckoutparams                     Add options to the `git checkout` command.
       --gitcloneparams                        Add options to the `git clone` command.
       --gitfetchparams                        Add options to the `git fetch` command.
       --gitpullparams                         Add options to the `git pull` command.
       --gitinfofile                           Inject version info into each .info file.
     --version-control=backup                  Default version_control engine. Backup all project files
                                               before updates.
       --no-backup                             Do not perform backups.
       --backup-dir                            Specify a directory to backup projects into. Defaults to
                                               drush-backups within the home directory of the user
                                               running the command. It is forbidden to specify a
                                               directory inside your drupal root.
     --version-control=bzr                     Quickly add/remove/commit your project changes to
                                               Bazaar.
       --bzrsync                               Automatically add new files to the Bazaar repository and
                                               remove deleted files. Caution.
       --bzrcommit                             Automatically commit changes to Bazaar repository. You
                                               must also use the --bzrsync option.
         --bzrmessage                          Override default commit message which is: Drush
                                               automatic commit. Project   Command:
     --version-control=svn                     Quickly add/remove/commit your project changes to
                                               Subversion.
       --svnsync                               Automatically add new files to the SVN repository and
                                               remove deleted files. Caution.
       --svncommit                             Automatically commit changes to SVN repository. You must
                                               also using the --svnsync option.
         --svnmessage                          Override default commit message which is: Drush
                                               automatic commit:
       --svnstatusparams                       Add options to the 'svn status' command
       --svnaddparams                          Add options to the `svn add` command
       --svnremoveparams                       Add options to the `svn remove` command
       --svnrevertparams                       Add options to the `svn revert` command
       --svncommitparams                       Add options to the `svn commit` command


    Aliases: upc

sql-cli

    Open a SQL command-line interface using Drupal's credentials.

    Options:
     --database=                        The DB connection key if using multiple connections in
                                               settings.php.
     --db-url=                                         install - not re-install.


    Aliases: sqlc

sql-connect

    A string for connecting to the DB.

    Examples:
     `drush sql-connect` < example.sql         Import sql statements from a file into the current
                                               database.


    Options:
     --database=                        The DB connection key if using multiple connections in
                                               settings.php.
     --db-url=                                         install - not re-install.

sql-create

    Create a database.

    Examples:
     drush sql-create                          Create the database for the current site.
     drush @site.test sql-create               Create the database as specified for @site.test.
     drush sql-create --db-su=root             Create the database as specified in the db-url option.
     --db-su-pw=rootpassword
     --db-url="mysql://drupal_db_user:drupal_
     db_password@127.0.0.1/drupal_db"


    Options:
     --database=                        The DB connection key if using multiple connections in
                                               settings.php.
     --db-su                                   Account to use when creating a new database. Optional.
     --db-su-pw                                Password for the "db-su" account. Optional.
     --db-url=                                         install - not re-install.

sql-drop

    Drop all tables in a given database.

    Options:
     --database=                        The DB connection key if using multiple connections in
                                               settings.php.
     --db-url=                                         install - not re-install.
     --result-file=             Save to a file. The file should be relative to Drupal
                                               root. Recommended.
     --yes                                     Skip confirmation and proceed.

sql-dump

    Exports the Drupal DB as SQL using mysqldump or equivalent.

    Examples:
     drush sql-dump --result-file=../18.sql    Save SQL dump to the directory above Drupal root.
     drush sql-dump --skip-tables-key=common   Skip standard tables. @see example.drushrc.php


    Options:
     --data-only                               Dump data without statements to create any of the
                                               schema.
     --database=                        The DB connection key if using multiple connections in
                                               settings.php.
     --db-url=                                         install - not re-install.
     --gzip                                    Compress the dump using the gzip program which must be
                                               in your $PATH.
     --ordered-dump                            Order by primary key and add line breaks for efficient
                                               diff in revision control. Also, faster rsync. Slows down
                                               the dump. Mysql only.
     --result-file=[/path/to/file]             Save to a file. The file should be relative to Drupal
                                               root. If --result-file is provided with no value, then
                                               date based filename will be created under
                                               ~/drush-backups directory.
     --skip-tables-key                         A key in the $skip_tables array. @see
                                               example.drushrc.php. Optional.
     --structure-tables-key                    A key in the $structure_tables array. @see
                                               example.drushrc.php. Optional.
     --tables-key                              A key in the $tables array. Optional.
     --tables-list                             A comma-separated list of tables to transfer. Optional.

sql-query

    Execute a query against the site database.

    Examples:
     drush sql-query "SELECT * FROM users      Browse user record. Table prefixes, if used, must be
     WHERE uid=1"                              added to table names by hand.
     drush sql-query --db-prefix "SELECT *     Browse user record. Table prefixes are honored.
     FROM {users} WHERE uid=1"                 Caution: curly-braces will be stripped from all portions
                                               of the query.
     `drush sql-connect` < example.sql         Import sql statements from a file into the current
                                               database.
     drush sql-query --file=example.sql        Alternate way to import sql statements from a file.


    Arguments:
     query                                     An SQL query. Ignored if 'file' is provided.


    Options:
     --database=                        The DB connection key if using multiple connections in
                                               settings.php.
     --db-prefix                               Enable replacement of braces in your query.
     --db-url=                                         install - not re-install.
     --extra                                   Add custom options to the mysql command.
     --file                                    Path to a file containing the SQL to be run.
     --result-file=             Save to a file. The file should be relative to Drupal
                                               root. Optional.


    Aliases: sqlq

sql-sync

    Copy and import source database to target database. Transfers via rsync.

    Examples:
     drush sql-sync @prod @dev                 Copy the DB defined in sites/prod to the DB in
                                               sites/dev.


    Arguments:
     from                                      Name of subdirectory within /sites or a site-alias.
     to                                        Name of subdirectory within /sites or a site-alias.


    Options:
     --cache                                   Skip dump if result file exists and is less than "cache"
                                               hours old. Optional; default is 24 hours.
     --create-db                               Create a new database before importing the database dump
                                               on the target machine.
     --db-su=                            Account to use when creating a new database. Optional.
     --db-su-pw=                         Password for the "db-su" account. Optional.
     --dump-dir                                Directory to store sql dump files in when --source-dump
                                               or --target-dump are not used.  Takes precedence over
                                               --temp.
     --no-cache                                Do not cache the sql-dump file.
     --no-dump                                 Do not dump the sql database; always use an existing
                                               dump file.
     --no-ordered-dump                         Do not pass --ordered-dump to sql-dump.  sql-sync orders
                                               the dumpfile by default in order to increase the
                                               efficiency of rsync.
     --sanitize                                Obscure email addresses and reset passwords in the user
                                               table post-sync. Optional.
       --sanitize-password                     The password to assign to all accounts in the
                                               sanitization operation, or "no" to keep passwords
                                               unchanged.  Default is "password".
       --sanitize-email                        The pattern for test email addresses in the sanitization
                                               operation, or "no" to keep email addresses unchanged.
                                               May contain replacement patterns %uid, %mail or %name.
                                               Default is "user+%uid@localhost".
       --confirm-sanitizations                 Prompt yes/no after importing the database, but before
                                               running the sanitizations
     --skip-tables-key                         A key in the $skip_tables array. @see
                                               example.drushrc.php. Optional.
     --source-db-url                           Database specification for source system to dump from.
     --source-dump                             Path to dump file. Optional; default is to create a
                                               temporary file.
     --source-remote-host                      Remote machine to run sql-dump file on. Optional;
                                               default is local machine.
     --source-remote-port                      Override sql database port number in source-db-url.
                                               Optional.
     --source-target                           Oy. A key within the --target_database identifying a
                                               particular server in the database group.
     --structure-tables-key                    A key in the $structure_tables array. @see
                                               example.drushrc.php. Optional.
     --tables-key                              A key in the $tables array. Optional.
     --tables-list                             A comma-separated list of tables to transfer. Optional.
     --target-database                         A key in the $db_url (D6) or $databases (D7+) array
                                               which shall receive the data.
     --target-db-url
     --target-dump
     --target-remote-host
     --target-remote-port
     --target-target                           Oy. A key within the --target_database identifying a
                                               particular server in the database group.
     --temp                                    Use a temporary file to hold dump files.  Implies
                                               --no-cache.

user-add-role

    Add a role to the specified user accounts.

    Examples:
     drush user-add-role "power user" 5,user3  Add the "power user" role to the accounts with name, id,
     --uid=2,3 --name=someguy,somegal          or email 5 or user3, uids 2 and 3, names someguy and
     --mail=billgates@microsoft.com            somegal, and email address of billgates@microsoft.com


    Arguments:
     role                                      The name of the role to add
     users                                     (optional) A comma delimited list of uids, user names,
                                               or email addresses.


    Options:
     --mail                                    A comma delimited list of user mail addresses
     --name                                    A comma delimited list of user names
     --uid                                     A comma delimited list of uids


    Aliases: urol

user-block

    Block the specified user(s).

    Examples:
     drush user-block 5,user3 --uid=2,3  Block the users with name, id, or email 5 or user3, uids
     --name=someguy,somegal              2 and 3, names someguy and somegal, and email address of
     --mail=billgates@microsoft.com      billgates@microsoft.com


    Arguments:
     users                                     A comma delimited list of uids, user names, or email
                                               addresses.


    Options:
     --mail                                    A comma delimited list of user mail addresses to block
     --name                                    A comma delimited list of user names to block
     --uid                                     A comma delimited list of uids to block


    Aliases: ublk

user-cancel

    Cancel a user account with the specified name.

    Examples:
     drush user-cancel username                Cancel the user account with the name username and
                                               anonymize all content created by that user.


    Arguments:
     name                                      The name of the account to cancel


    Options:
     --delete-content                          Instead of re-assigning content from the cancelled user
                                               to user ID 1, delete it.


    Aliases: ucan

user-create

    Create a user account with the specified name.

    Examples:
     drush user-create newuser    Create a new user account with the name newuser, the
     --mail="person@example.com"  email address person@example.com, and the password
     --password="letmein"         letmein


    Arguments:
     name                                      The name of the account to add


    Options:
     --mail                                    The email address for the new account
     --password                                The password for the new account


    Aliases: ucrt

user-information

    Print information about the specified user(s).

    Examples:
     drush user-information                    Display information about any users with uids, names, or
     2,3,someguy,somegal,billgates@microsoft.  mail addresses matching the strings between commas.
     com


    Arguments:
     users                                     A comma delimited list of uids, user names, or email
                                               addresses.


    Options:
     --full                                    show extended information about the user
     --short                                   show basic information about the user (this is the
                                               default)


    Aliases: uinf

user-login

    Display a one time login link for the given user account (defaults to uid 1).

    Examples:
     drush user-login ryan                     Displays a one-time login link for the user ryan.
     open `drush user-login ryan`              Open web browser and login as user ryan.


    Arguments:
     name                                      The name of the account to log in as. Leave it empty to
                                               log in as uid 1.


    Aliases: uli

user-password

    (Re)Set the password for the user account with the specified name.

    Examples:
     drush user-password someuser       Set the password for the username someuser. @see
     --password="correct horse battery  xkcd.com/936
     staple"


    Arguments:
     name                                      The name of the account to modify.


    Options:
     --password=                          The new password for the account. Required.


    Aliases: upwd

user-remove-role

    Remove a role from the specified user accounts.

    Examples:
     drush user-remove-role "power user"       Remove the "power user" role from the accounts with
     5,user3 --uid=2,3 --name=someguy,somegal  name, id, or email 5 or user3, uids 2 and 3, names
     --mail=billgates@microsoft.com            someguy and somegal, and email address of
                                               billgates@microsoft.com


    Arguments:
     role                                      The name of the role to remove
     users                                     (optional) A comma delimited list of uids, user names,
                                               or email addresses.


    Options:
     --mail                                    A comma delimited list of user mail addresses
     --name                                    A comma delimited list of user names
     --uid                                     A comma delimited list of uids


    Aliases: urrol

user-unblock

    Unblock the specified user(s).

    Examples:
     drush user-unblock 5,user3 --uid=2,3  Unblock the users with name, id, or email 5 or user3,
     --name=someguy,somegal                uids 2 and 3, names someguy and somegal, and email
     --mail=billgates@microsoft.com        address of billgates@microsoft.com


    Arguments:
     users                                     A comma delimited list of uids, user names, or email
                                               addresses.


    Options:
     --mail                                    A comma delimited list of user mail addresses to unblock
     --name                                    A comma delimited list of user names to unblock
     --uid                                     A comma delimited list of uids to unblock


    Aliases: uublk

make

    Turns a makefile into a Drupal codebase. For a full description of options and makefile syntax, see
    docs/make.txt and examples/example.make.

    Examples:
     drush make example.make example           Build the example.make makefile in the example
                                               directory.
     drush make --no-core                      Build an installation profile within an existing Drupal
     --contrib-destination=.                   site
     installprofile.make
     drush make                                Build the remote example.make makefile in the example
     http://example.com/example.make example   directory.


    Arguments:
     makefile                                  Filename of the makefile to use for this build.
     build path                                The path at which to build the makefile.


    Options:
     --concurrency=<1>                         Limits the number of concurrent projects that will be
                                               processed at the same time. The default is 4.
     --contrib-destination                     Specify a path under which modules and themes should be
                                               placed. Defaults to sites/all.
     --dev                                     Work with development releases solely.
     --download-mechanism                      How to download files. Should be autodetected, but this
                                               is an override if it doesn't work. Options are "curl"
                                               and "make" (a native download method).
     --force-complete                          Force a complete build even if errors occur.
     --ignore-checksums                        Ignore md5 checksums for downloads.
     --libraries                               Restrict the make to this comma-separated list of
                                               libraries. To specify all libraries, pass *.
     --make-update-default-url                 The default location to load the XML update information
                                               from.
     --md5=[print]                             Output an md5 hash of the current build after
                                               completion. Use --md5=print to print to stdout.
     --no-cache                                Do not use the pm-download caching (defaults to cache
                                               enabled).
     --no-clean                                Leave temporary build directories in place instead of
                                               cleaning up after completion.
     --no-core                                 Do not require a Drupal core project to be specified.
     --no-gitinfofile                          Do not modify .info files when cloning from Git.
     --no-patch-txt                            Do not write a PATCHES.txt file in the directory of each
                                               patched project.
     --prepare-install                         Prepare the built site for installation. Generate a
                                               properly permissioned settings.php and files directory.
     --projects                                Restrict the make to this comma-separated list of
                                               projects. To specify all projects, pass *.
     --source                                  The base URL which provides project release history in
                                               XML. Defaults to
                                               http://updates.drupal.org/release-history.
     --tar                                     Generate a tar archive of the build. The output filename
                                               will be [build path].tar.gz.
     --test                                    Run a temporary test build and clean up.
     --translations                            Retrieve translations for the specified comma-separated
                                               list of language(s) if available for all projects.
     --version                                 Print the make API version and exit.
     --working-copy                            Preserves VCS directories, like .git, for projects
                                               downloaded using such methods.

make-generate

    Generate a makefile from the current Drupal site, specifying project version numbers unless not
    known or otherwise specified. Unversioned projects will be interpreted later by drush make as "most
    recent stable release"

    Examples:
     drush generate-makefile example.make      Generate a makefile with ALL projects versioned (should
                                               a project have a known version number)
     drush generate-makefile example.make      Generate a makefile with NO projects versioned
     --exclude-versions
     drush generate-makefile example.make      Generate a makefile with ALL projects versioned EXCEPT
     --exclude-versions=drupal,views,cck       core, Views and CCK
     drush generate-makefile example.make      Generate a makefile with NO projects versioned EXCEPT
     --include-versions=admin_menu,og,ctools   Admin Menu, OG and CTools.
     (--exclude-versions)


    Options:
     --dev                                     Work with development releases solely.
     --exclude-versions                        Exclude all version numbers (default is include all
                                               version numbers) or optionally specify a list of
                                               projects to exclude from versioning
     --include-versions                        Include a specific list of projects, while all other
                                               projects remain unversioned in the makefile (so implies
                                               --exclude-versions)
     --source                                  The base URL which provides project release history in
                                               XML. Defaults to
                                               http://updates.drupal.org/release-history.


    Aliases: generate-makefile
